---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

Chromatic protocol provides futures functionality within the DeFi ecosystem, enabling the creation of two-sided markets for participants to trade exposure to an underlying price feed.
This comprised of many libraries, which together make the Core and Periphery.

Core contracts provide fundamental safety guarantees for all parties interacting with Chromatic. They define the logic of the market, futures trading, liquidity pools, and the interactions involving the respective assets therein.

Periphery contracts interact with one or more Core contracts but are not part of the core. They are designed to provide methods of interacting with the core that increase clarity and user safety.

External calls will primarily call the periphery interfaces except some exceptional case.

## Core
     
### [ChromaticMarket](./core/ChromaticMarket.md)

A contract that represents a Chromatic market, combining trade and liquidity functionalities.

### [ChromaticMarketFactory](./core/ChromaticMarketFactory.md)

Contract for managing the creation and registration of Chromatic markets.

### [ChromaticVault](./core/ChromaticVault.md)

A contract that provides functionality for managing positions, liquidity, and fees in Chromatic markets.

### [CLBToken](./core/CLBToken.md)

CLBToken is an ERC1155 token contract that represents Liquidity Bin tokens. CLBToken allows minting and burning of tokens by the Chromatic Market contract.

### [KeeperFeePayer](./core/KeeperFeePayer.md)

A contract that pays keeper fees using a Uniswap router.

## Oracle
### [ChainlinkFeedOracle](./oracle/ChainlinkFeedOracle.md)

A contract that provides Oracle functionality using Chainlink feeds.


## Periphery

### [ChromaticAccount](./periphery/ChromaticAccount.md)

This contract manages user accounts and positions.

### [ChromaticRouter](./periphery/ChromaticRouter.md)

A router contract that facilitates liquidity provision and trading on Chromatic.

### [ChromaticLens](./periphery/ChromaticLens.md)

A contract that provides utility functions for interacting with Chromatic markets.
