---
sidebar_position: 1
id: create-account
---

# Create an Account

## Overview

Creating an account is an essential prerequisite for users who wish to participate in trading activities within the Chromatic Protocol. The `createAccount` function enables the creation of a new user account, ensuring that each user can have only one account.

## ChromaticRouter Interface

The `IChromaticRouter` interface serves as the primary interface for interacting with the ChromaticRouter contract. It provides access to the `createAccount` function, allowing users to create user accounts.

```solidity
interface IChromaticRouter {
    /**
     * @notice Creates a new user account.
     * @dev Only one account can be created per user.
     *      Emits an `AccountCreated` event upon successful creation.
     */
    function createAccount() external;
}
```

## Account Creation Process

The account creation process in the Chromatic Protocol involves a single step: calling the `createAccount` function. Upon successful execution of this function, an `AccountCreated` event is emitted, signifying the successful creation of a new user account.

### Step 1: Call the `createAccount` Function

To create an account, users need to invoke the `createAccount` function of the ChromaticRouter contract. This function does not accept any parameters and can be called directly.

```solidity
function createAccount() external;
```

### Event: `AccountCreated`

Upon successfully creating a new user account, the `AccountCreated` event is emitted. This event provides information about the account creation, allowing users to track and handle account-related events.

```solidity
event AccountCreated();
```
